I don't have to take up too much of your time.
No, no, that's all right.
I'm not doing anything.
Do you think we've covered the high points?
Is there anything that I should know about your husband that you think that we haven't covered as a bookseller?
No, I mean, there's... You've given me a lot of names of people I can call, too.
Yeah.
He'll say things about him, which is nice.
Nice things about him.
Well, it also depends how much you want to write about it.
You said only, didn't you say only a chapter or something?
Oh, it's a chapter, yeah, but I'm looking for good little stories.
Oh, I see, yeah.
And how influential they were.
How, according to Roger Stoddard, we have things here that you don't have in Europe.
We have things here that are better than what you find in Europe because of these booksellers.
It's quite a comment to make, isn't it?
Yeah.
Lucien was very friendly with Donald Wing from Yves.
You know, unfortunately he had this cancer in the throat and he couldn't talk.
But he and Lucien got on so well, and Donald Wing was interested in more romantic French literature.
But I must say there's one thing, that the booksellers are not of the same cup of tea
as when we came here at the beginning.
The knowledge of Jackson and other of these people, now you don't get this.
You need the librarians.
Yeah, you don't get this anymore.
See, that also has changed.
That has changed, yeah.
I find it's too bad that this, with all this internet, the people are not going to use this anymore, you know?
It's all pressing on a button and you get knowledge.
But what kind of knowledge do you get?
Well, they get information, which is not knowledge.
Information is just data.
I know, but it's so terrible.
It doesn't, I mean, it doesn't excite you.
No, no.
It's also discovering things by yourself.
So he used to go to the Grosje Club library, to the... Oh, yes.
He was very friendly with Nykirk.
You know, the one that died before, died about six,
Years ago, before Martin.
I quote him, yeah, that's right.
And actually, Kimball followed him, I think.
Yeah, Kimball, yeah.
Kimball came in.
Yeah, Kimball came in.
And then he went over to Sotheby.
Sotheby's.
Right.
That's where he is.
But Martin was very, very good.
Yeah, Martin wrote a memorial statement for your hand.
Yeah, but I asked him, because, you see, it had to be done so quickly.
So I had all this.
My son helped me a little bit.
But I was really, not interviewing, but I arranged it straight away to do all this, because this I found I had to do.
That was a sort of farewell.
Though I haven't always been treated like I should, but there we are.
We never had a word between us, because I played second fiddle.
And that's probably why it worked.
Now, what you did is you...
largely wrote these descriptions for the books?
Well, I did most of the, lots of the description.
I mean, actually, Lucien had more knowledge than I had.
I didn't have any Greek, I only had nothing at school.
But still, I had more professional, it was funny, because he never went to library school.
So he learned this, shall we say, by himself.
And I had my formative kind of background,
And sometimes I said, but one doesn't write this way, it should be done this way.
So he caught on, and we didn't argue.
Well, I mean, look, why should I?
Well, you say I can take these?
Yes, you can take these.
Could you say also that you could copy the Le Monde article for me, from the Beres interview?
Yes, Le Monde.
I will have it zero.
Oh, that would be great.
I don't have it zero.
In the family.
You should tell me just a little bit about Lucien's background.
Well, his father was a doctor in law, and he had, well, he worked in Germany as a lawyer for, until really the Nazi came along.
And he, they had three children.
Lucien was the youngest, then the eldest was Raymond Goldsmith,
who was in the State Department, one of the top economists, and he went over to Europe.
He was nominated Brigadier General.
He never did any military in his life.
But he was in connection with the mark when it was changed, you see.
And he wrote something like 32 books on economics.
He was afterwards professor at Yale.
until a few years ago.
So they came to America, too?
Oh, he came before Lucien.
And he studied, I think, in London before he came.
And thanks to him, Lucien was able to come over.
And the second one actually went to Israel.
He's the one that founded the kibbutz Engev with Kolek.
You know, Kolek of the...
That's right.
Ex-mayor, a wonderful fellow.
Oh, he was marvelous.
I just loved the way he talked, and no fuss, you know, it was terrific.
And then Lucien came five or six years later, and these two brothers were so, I would say, really nasty to him.
So Lucien developed a kind of, as a revenge,
to try and learn everything by heart.
He could tell you inside out the names of the different Secretary of State of different countries.
So you see how all this has been developed early in life.
He liked to memorize things.
Yes, memorize.
He had to do that because then he had the revenge on his brothers, who really said, oh, you're a little boy, you don't know anything.
So he used to come out because he used to read, and he was always a great reader of the newspaper.
That he's done all his life.
It meant a lot.
He had to be informed.
So his mother never went to school.
She played the piano beautifully.
Her mother could have been a concert pianist, but she wasn't allowed.
His grandfather retired at the age of 39, and when he married, he told his wife, where do you want to live?
Paris?
Berlin?
Vienna?
And they could choose in those days.
There was no passport.
So you could live anywhere.
That's great.
Listen, I have to go downtown.
I have a meeting coming up.
Okay, fine.